# DYC

We decided to develop a model with a dataset based on urine related to a project of ML in Prediction of Bladder Cancer. We tried to predict the presence of different health issues (bladder and kidney cancer) among healthy subjects, thus our target was a three ways categorical variable. To allow for a simple and smooth reading we did wrote the algorithm on Jupyter Notebook. Clearly the model is a simple prediction and is still away from what we want to achieve in the long term, as also the target will be different. Later on, we will try to predict the proximity of a single person to being sick, allowing for real pre-screening; the output will be more of a continuous than a categorical. Especially because the model will serve as a help for doctors and not as a full predictor. We will provide doctors a clear interface with which they can work. Especially with random forest, it will be simple to understand which the main variables are used to perform the splits in the trees, therefore easy to understand the most relevant variables upon which the AI takes the decision, and the doctor should focus his attention. For these reasons, here we went and tried different classifiers to make the best prediction possible. Our notebook deploys through some initial data preparation, then moving to basic data exploration and analysis. Lastly, we did a simple try of the models, it was crystal clear that the best performing ones were a Random Forest and a Light Gradient Boosting Machine. We then performed a Grid Search technique to tune the models. The best result we got was an accuracy of 0.84. Analyzing the results, it comes up that lack of the predictive ability is to identify the kind of cancer, and as a matter of fact many cases were labeled as bladder cancer patient instead of the true kidney cancer patients. Nonetheless, we are overall very satisfied with the results we got, since the solution is accurate in detecting the disease, regardless the specific one, which is our goal. The most important one is to achieve the lower possible number of False Negative, as doctors will rarely focus on those. To have a practical understanding of this, we show the Receiving Operating Characteristics curve, which indicate the precision in detecting a health state for healthy people, as plotting the True Positive Rate against False Positive Rate at various classification thresholds.
